**Product Recommender System based on the demand of the customer in the
University Store of AUP using Predictive and Association Mining**

A thesis presented to the Faculty of

Information Technology Department

College of Business

Adventist University of the Philippines

In Partial Fulfilment

of the Requirements for the Course

Capstone Project

Lino Asmolo Jr.

John Enoch Ortega

Jayson Tindoy

December 12, 2019

**Chapter 1**

**Introduction**

**1.1 Project Context**

“Data, I think, is one of the most powerful mechanisms for telling stories. I
take a huge pile of data and I try to get it to tell stories.” – Steven Levitt

Every day that passes by. Electronic gadgets or machines input thousands and
thousands of data. Most of those data are just being deleted every end of the
day without even looked upon at. But there is process that can be used to make
those everyday data useful that can help in our everyday Living

Data Mining is process used to turn raw data into useful information. By using
software to look for patterns in large batches of data, business can learn more
about their customers/users to develop more effective marketing strategies,
increase sales and decrease costs.

It may be the 21st Century but still most companies or corporations use manual
survey to gain information on how they can do better marketing strategies,
increase sales and decrease costs. Though manual survey is still effective, it
is not that efficient given that it takes days, weeks, months or even years.

With data mining, it’s a different story, for it uses already stored data and
with those already stored data it creates patterns and algorithms which can be
used as useful information not just for the companies or corporations, but also
to everyone.

**1.2 Description of the Project**

University Store (UV) of AUP was established back then at the time when PUC
moved from Baesa to Puting Kahoy, Silang, Cavite. Since at that time, the exact
location where it is located right now is still the same. Situated along the
road where customers passing by could easily see it. Before reaching Boy’s
Dormitories, the building can be seen. With its strategic location, University
store would easily attract customers.

UV is a two-stories building with around 30 working students that assist the
department in its daily transactions. Headed by Mr. Arlene Fajardo and supported
by his six staffs. The department provides AUP campus primary needs like rice,
vegetables and fruits. Personal stuff products like shampoos, toothpaste, bath
soap and skin care products. Also, it sells things like t-shirts, bags, shoes,
socks and many more. Roaming inside the building, going upstairs where the
school supplies located. UV also provided a small section that caters Postal
documents.

According to Mr. Macaraig, current accountant of UV, based on previous years of
the departmental operation of selling products to University and other walk-in
customers, UV is gaining an income.

**1.3 Purpose of the Project**

The AUP University Store is still a growing business that sells goods and other
things to the students and to the public. We are hoping to enhance the marketing
and sales capability of the AUP University Store by using data mining to help
the store runners interact with the customers through the data mined and
patterns and algorithms it has created.

Listed below are the problems and issues the AUP University Store are facing
which hinders the marketing and sales capability of the store.

**1.4 Project Objectives**

**1.4.1 General Objective**

The main objective of the project is to develop a (proper system) and (system)
for AUP University Store in AUP Silang, Cavite wherein the marketing and sales
capability will be enhanced and to promote good customer service

**1.4.2 Specific Objective**

>   Develop a system that collects everyday data in every store transaction

>   Develop a system/software that reads and transforms the collected data into
>   patterns and algorithms

>   Develop a software with computerized marketing and sales plan that uses the
>   collected data, patterns and algorithms

>   Enhancing the marketing and sales capability of the store by using the
>   developed system and software

**1.5 Scope and Limitations of the Project**

The (system) is a web based and software system that can be used in any computer
that runs in Windows 7 to Windows 10. The proposed system will use HTML, CSS,
PHP, jQuery, framework, JavaScript, MySQL, server as the database of the system

The proposed system covers the display of the patterns and algorithms that the
system has made using the collected data. The system also has a monitoring
system to keep track on every transaction made in the store that also be used as
raw data for the system to process.

The proposed system also displays any statistical data by using the processed
collected data that can be used for better marketing and sales planning.

**1.6 Significance of the Project**

**Business Marketing and Sales Planning**

>   This system can be best used for marketing and sales planning for it uses
>   credible data and accurate mathematics through statistics

**Store Business**

>   This proposed system can be used to monitor what the customers like to by
>   the most and what to buy the least. With this useful info, the store runner
>   will know what to sell and what not to sell

**Business Planning**

>   This proposed system can be used globally for it is web based and with that
>   in mind, aspiring entrepreneurs around the globe can use this system to plan
>   their business carefully by using and studying the information statistically
>   and technically

**Chapter II**

**Review of Related Literature**

**2.1 Technical Background**

**2.2 Review of Related Foreign Systems**

**2.2.1 Recommender System for Journal Articles Using Opinion Mining and
Semantics**

Building a system that would recommend relevant journals, articles, books and
publications to author/s would greatly affect researchers’ studies where they
could gather significant information related to their topics. Recommender
systems have done its part on filtering sources as to what preferences searcher
wants. With the rapid increase of published research papers like journals or
articles, one may find difficult to choose of which one research papers is
appropriate to read upon and collect information, that in return it would
consume much time looking for it. A good choice of information means a good
result of research paper that would impact authors work. As a result, the
authors decided to develop a journal recommendation system, this system will
suggest journals and help authors to decide and to choose suitable papers.

On developing the system, they meet difficulties like to which journals will be
collected and to where this gathered data will be stored. Also, how they can do
a better and much accurate recommendation of journals to users as well as to
what technique would fit for the recommender system to use. The authors find a
way of solving these problems by incorporating user-given opinions to their
experiences of reading, subscriptions and words that are used in that journal in
their data mining. By gathering this valuable information about the users, they
believe that they can solve the issues and provide a significant and appropriate
journal to the users.

Two frameworks were proposed in this system to gather data in which will produce
recommendations of journals on the latter part. The first is User Opinion
Analysis where data comes from the survey given to the user with regards to
their individual comments of reading the journal and subscription of it. Surveys
were done through online using google forms and offline via hard copies of
survey form. Different tools were used to processed data gathered from the
survey to get good information about the journal. The result of this analysis
will determine whether they see user if it is helpful or otherwise not. The
second is Semantic Similarity based Approach. This mainly means gathering the
description of the Journals provided. Each detailed information of research
paper like title of the research, keywords provided, abstract stated were
collected and considered as an input for recommendation as well as the frequency
of publication and citation score and any other related to journal. With the
recommendations as a result of the second framework and the recommendations from
the user opinion were combined. Using a term to term relationship, both was
analyzed to find similarity of terms.

In conclusion, authors were able to get good recommendation of journal using a
combination of user experiences on journal and a detailed information of each
journal. Also, they found out that submitting research to a journal archive like
“Big Data Research” is a good decision to make since it rates 3 in their query
which can make a good impact in the authors side. They also wanted to conduct a
similarity check to tools namely Hadoop and Spark to compare if their
recommendations of journals are accurate and relevant to the user.

**2.2.2 An Improved Collaborative Filtering Based Recommender System Using Bat
Algorithm**

Finding the exact information becomes an issue since there are lots of it
published and uploaded in the web. To give solution to this matter, Recommender
Systems were introduced that can suggest items and help user improved their
searching experiences to their item preferences. In this research, the authors
proposed a recommender system that is solely based on Bat Algorithm to improve
its collaborative filtering of information.

The idea behind collaborative filtering is that recommending items based on
similar suggestions of users. Using this filtering technique is a good choice
since it has something to do with users and items relationship. Yet, drawbacks
can always happen like when a new item or user is created, provided information
of item or user is quite little. Recommender systems work with information
gathered from the user and items itself that it suggests then, and if there is
not enough information is available, that's becomes an issue. But researchers
were not left behind with this problem, techniques were created to address it
and minimize the effect with the ability to render quality recommendations.

In line with this filtering, heuristic techniques were also incorporated to
optimize quality searches of item features that produce a better clustering of
users having similar weight of features. Swarm intelligent techniques like
Artificial Bee Colon (ABC) Bat Algorithm (BA) and Cucko Search are techniques
used to improve searches. The idea of developing this system that proponents
want to achieve are as follow: they can provide customized suggestions for every
user and optimize recommendations by incorporating techniques mentioned above in
their collaborative filtering process. Among the three techniques, proponents
used the Bat Algorithm as a result of the experiments done that BA performs well
and has provided better results of recommendations. In the review of related
literature, the authors found out that collaborative filtering when used with
swarm techniques could bring difficult situation to achievable results, and with
this, the authors tried to use Bat Algorithm “to generate future weights” with
the Pearson Correlation Coefficient to see similarity between users.

Bat Algorithm (BA) comes from the idea of a bats in their method of looking for
food. Moment by moment eat bat sends sound wave which reflected when it hits any
object. Based on the reflected waves, the bat will know how close or far the
subject is and find better solution how to catch it. In relation to a better
recommendation, bat algorithm keep on producing optimize solution for a better
recommendation.

In conclusion, the authors prove that using Bat Algorithm generates an accurate
recommendation, also parallel experiment were done with the mentioned algorithm
to measure its effectivity and results were true, BA performs well with a 6.9%
better than ABC does. The authors are also looking forward in their future
development to categorize results of recommendation into bad, good and average,
so a better recommendation can be achieved. Also, they want for the future
research to try social networking to learn user’s behavior and traits.

**2.2.3 Product recommendation based on shared customer’s behavior**

The system was developed by Fatima Rodrigues and Bruno Ferreira from Polytechnic
of Porto in 2016 to provide accurate recommendation of products. The recommender
was implemented to a company that operates over 30 years and sells products like
perfumes, make-ups and body care products with about 250,000 customers and
110,000 products in a given period time from 2012-2014 purchases. Also, this
recommender is to suggest products to the loyal customers only.

In a selling environment where there are thousands of products available, issues
would normally arise to the company how the can cater the needs of every
customer by recommending relevant products to them, what products will be bought
by the customer on the next purchase or store visit to see the availability of
products on stocks. Giving a closer look how to resolve these issues will help
company to keep intact their customers to their products which in the long run
would normally increase sales and by doing so, they can gain new customers who
are attracted to the treatment the company gives.

In this project, the authors developed a recommender system to solve the problem
mentioned above. The recommender system will be used to understand the
preferences of customers of the product that they put into their market basket.
Understanding the customers market basket will benefit company in gaining more
profit.

In this recommender system, the authors look on how they can implement it to
make recommendations, what products would be considered that is worth to be
recommended since there are thousands of it, how they can group the similar
customers with the same preferences and identify the relationship between each
products that are purchased by similar customers at the same time.

To implement the recommender system, the authors present the following concept
of how it was made: first is to use the Customer Lifetime Value by making
evaluation of their shared behavior shown towards the products on the recency,
the last time that the customer purchase a product; frequency, how many times of
product purchase in a given period on time; and monetary, the amount of money
that was spent during that time. Second is clustering using partition algorithm,
this will determine customer with the same life time value and to where group it
belongs. To achieve groupings, objects should be like each other object which
also creates a division from those customers with different attributes. Third is
an association rule mining technique is done which identifies relationship
between items in a transaction. This literally means that on a purchase, if
product “A” is bought, product “B” will be bought as well. And to identify those
relationship, Apriori was used, a popular algorithm that is known for collecting
association rules.

In conclusion, using recency, frequency and monetary to group customers, the
authors were able to generate recommendation best and appropriate product to
those specific group of customers. The authors also added that doing
recommendation on a specific time enables to generate recommendation of products
on seasonal basis. In general, they said that the methods they used in
recommender system made an excellent recommendation.

Rodriques, F & Ferreira, B (2016)

**2.2.4 Tourism recommender system using Case Based Reasoning Approach**

**(Case Study: Bandung Raya Area)**

The system was developed by Bamban D. Fatmawatie and Z K A Baizal, from School
of Computing, Telkom University, Bandung, Indonesia in 2019. This
